Pick guys welcome back to the course.
So something that I hear people ask quite a bit in the group discussions is how do I outsource and simultaneously
protect my intellectual property rights.
It's a question that so many people have asked that I decided to make an actual lecture dedicated to
that question.
So the idea goes that you know if I have a project idea and I'm pouring all of this time and energy
and originality into it if I then go and take all of that specificity and I post it online what is stopping
someone out there from just taking that idea and running with it.
So in this lecture I'm going to talk about what the things you can do to protect yourself are and at
the end we'll talk a little bit about in the bigger picture grander scheme.
Does this even matter.
First off a lot of people don't realize this but when you are hiring through up work and remember a
perk is pretty much the defacto place you go to hire people.
Nowadays since Elance died you already have confidentiality protection.
Now it used to be on elance you could have the option that says that people sign an NDA in order to
see your project.
Well they got rid of that feature in up work and why did they do that.
Well as it turns out any time someone bids or creates an account or signs a contract with you through
up work they already have confidentiality and non-compete clauses baked into what they are signing.
Clause fifteen point one you can actually look it up in the terms and agreements.
It's also in other places you know it says you don't disclose any confidential information supplied
to it by the other to a third party without first appearing written consent.
You cannot use any such confidential information for your own purposes.
There you go.
They can't take any info you give them and use it for their own projects.
Mark Zuckerberg only disclose disclose the information to those of its personnel that need access to
it in order to complete the contract they cannot share information with people that are not part of
their team.
So technically if someone were to take the information you post online you do have legal grounds and
it's very well-defined and it's very easy to understand process if you want to then go and pursue this.
Now number two you can do is actually just have them sign an NDA before you give them more information.
There's really no excuse nowadays.
I mean we have hello sign.
We have to sign.
There's so many online signature services and a lot of them are free.
Hello signed for instance is free that you don't have an excuse not to give them an NDA if that makes
you feel more comfortable.
At the end of the course we have India listed that you can use just grab it that you can use it yourself
plug it into one of those and send them to people get them to sign it.
You can also Alternatively if you don't want to do that you think that's too burdensome.
You can actually just limit how much information you post on your project now in general if I'm asking
for someone to build So let's say a web application I don't need to tell them what industry it's for.
I don't need to tell them a lot of the core details that make the application.
They don't need to know for instance what industry you're in how you're going to make money where are
you going to find your customers what your copywriting says you can wipe all of that information and
just use a generic description.
This part saves this information to this database and this part pulls this information and displays
that.
Remember when you're posting a project you just want them to get a decent enough idea to give you the
correct estimate for your scope.
Right.
And then you can decide to give them more information if you find it relevant.
Of course there's obvious downsides to this and it's not perfect.
I'm pretty sure anyone who is motivated enough and smart enough can still figure out what you're building
even if you make it a generic description.
Also if you're going to go and talk to every single contractor and tell them you design NDA before I
give you any good information.
Well that actually kind of negates the benefit of posting online in a type of marketplace where people
bid right you want them to know a lot about the application so they can bid and see what other people
are bidding and you want that kind of competition to get you the best price.
Now by doing that NDA technique you're basically making it like 100 different little private projects.
In general I think you're going to get a more expensive estimate.
So those are two techniques you can use if it makes you feel better.
But at the end of the day does any of this really matter.
Well India is not closure agreements ask yourself if someone's eyes in India and they're not in the
same country as you and we're outsourcing to.
Probably not.
Can you do anything about it if they break the terms in that contract.
I mean even if they're in your country and they break your NDA can you actually bring legal ramifications
against them even if they're in the next state over again.
Probably not.
India's are notoriously hard to enforce because they're so so vague.
When I worked in venture capital we always joke because people would make a sign in DA's and if you
actually read the language of a standard T hey that would mean that if I was talking to a company in
education I could not then go and talk to another company in education I would have to wait like two
years before even having a conversation with someone in a similar space.
It's too onerous and any judge is just gonna shoot that down.
How are you to prove that they took the idea specifically.
You know it mentions marks I heard before ago knows that story about how they got sued by the Winkel
boss twins.
Well the only reason Facebook ended up paying money was two reasons.
One they settled because it was bad press and to the only actual argument they had was that he literally
used code that he built for them and then deployed it in his own project.
That was evidence they could actually go to the Facebook page and look and see hey you clearly wrote
this for their application.
Now if they don't do that specifically what hard evidence is there you just say you know he saw my idea
and used it.
But if they modify it even ever so slightly then you can't do anything unless you take into consideration
is that.
Sure.
I mean you can go through abnormal links in abnormal amounts of effort to hide your IP and your idea
but it's eventually going to have exposure.
OK I mean posting it online.
And 10 people see it.
Well guess what.
A lot of people are going to see this and they're going to see your idea or your application when you're
testing and they're going to see it when you pitch it.
They are going to hear about it when you tell other people about it.
It's unreasonable to think that you're going to avoid exposure to your idea and I think it's silly to
even try to hide it.
It's really just better that everyone gets off of this notion that there are these people the people
waiting out in the bushes with the development team just waiting for someone to accidentally drop the
best idea ever and then they're just going to take it and run with it.
And that's how they're finally they become billionaires.
That's just not how the world works.
At the end of the day their only thing that really matters is execution.
Because I know it was a shocker do a lot of you out there.
We have seven billion people on this planet is it eight billion seven billion.
Your idea is not original.
Someone else has had it before.
Again all the famous companies if you look at when they started there were other people that had the
same idea at the same time.
They just didn't take it as seriously as the people that actually went out and worked with it.
So the only that matters is you take the initiative and actually go out there and do it.
And the last thing I'll say is let's be honest if a development team that's on the other side of the
world that you're using specifically because they're cheap can copy your idea and make it successful.
Do you really think it's a good idea at all.
I would say that idea probably isn't very special.
Should probably move on to something else.
All right guys questions concerns both in the group discussion if you have any other things you want
me to address.
More than willing to make an update for you.
All right.
Otherwise enjoy the rest of the course.